Hello and welcome in this lecture.
We're going to be getting at A.I. to follow us and navigate around the world, avoiding obstacles and
just generally being a little bit of an annoying nuisance.
Let's dive in and see how this is possible.
So the next most of your obvious piece of the puzzle that we need to sort out here is getting our A.I.
to move towards us.
Good them just standing there.
They also need to move and then they'll need to shoot.
First of all, that's figure out how we can do movement.
Now, when you're moving with A.I., A.I. needs to know about obstacles.
It needs to do something called pathfinding because say I'm hiding down in this corridor here and it
wants to get to me.
It needs to know that it can't just move through the wall.
It's going to need to plan its roots to come around the obstacles and come towards me.
Now, the way this typically works, even games in general and specifically here in Unreal is that we
generate a mesh which tells us where is walkable within a level and then using various algorithms,
one of which is called a style pathfinding.
You can navigate on this mesh and create a route plan.
And the airline then uses this route plan to move along.
So that's the kind of outline of the process.
Fortunately, a lot of that is done for us.
We don't have to code this from scratch.
So what we need to do is, first of all, be able to see the navigation.
At the moment, we can't see enough mesh partially because there isn't one.
So what we need to do is look in our place, actors window here or so go to window and look for placed
place actors.
We need to search for a nav mesh.
And we're looking for the nav mesh bounds of volume.
Now, this creates a volume, a kind of box, and everything within that box is going to be checked
for how navigable it is, basically, whether it's flats, whether it's not too steep.
Basically at where there's a wall, you can't go through walls, you can't walk over walls because they're
too steep.
So if we drag in a narrow mesh bound volume and just bring it here and put it slightly through the floor
so that this allows the floor to be part of that navigation calculation, then what we've got to do
is enable the visibility of NAV measures.
You can do this by clicking on the show button in the top left of your viewport and then clicking on
navigation or using the shortcut P..
So I'm going to use the shortcut P and selecting.
Why don't you have to select the bounce volume?
You can instantly see this green mesh has appeared within the bounds volume, which is telling us this
is a walkable area.
So if we had our enemy within this area and his target was also within the area, then it could find
a path along this mesh.
Now let's have a look at what happens if we move this to where there's an obstacle.
You can see that the mesh kind of cuts out around this obstacle.
So what we actually want to do is have this volume encompass the whole of our level.
And you could choose not to or just do it in certain segments.
But the easiest way is just to increase the bounds of this volume, which you can do if you give us
the details.
Pain on the right.
There's the brush settings and you can change the size of the brush like so you can see we can make
it larger, we can make it wider and it goes red when it's being recalculated.
You can see it's doing that building nav mesh.
And the larger it's going to be, the harder it is going to be to build the nav much longer it's going
to take.
But you can see that this is working.
It's cutting out the corridors.
It's cutting out the obstacles that we can't walk around.
The second part of this puzzle is having an A.I. able to do its rooting algorithms on this mesh.
Now, let's go ahead and open the BP shooter, A.I. controller, because I want to show you something
that is in here.
I'm going to open up the full blueprint editor here and have a look here.
There is a component called the path following component.
That component is responsible for finding enough mesh.
And then basically allowing us to create paths and follow them and move along them automatically.
So we don't have to build any of that functionality in or we have to do is use a function that's available
on our A.I. controller.
If you go and search for the air controller dot h and look for the move to function, then let's do
move to with an open brackets.
Then there's a couple of options here.
We've got a one takes a move to request.
There are some other options here too, but that should go by a different name.
Now, in later versions on rail, we've got moved to actor and we've got moved to location, which have
the same distinction as our setting focus.
You can set focus to something that's moving like an actor, or you can set focus to a specific destination
such as a waypoint in your patrol route, for example, might be a move to location.
So I'd like you to have a go at attempting a move to as your challenge.
So get and now mesh in your scene.
Make it cover as much of the scene as you'd need to for you to be able to move around and have the.
I follow you in all locations and then call that move to either move to act or move to location, you
decide which in begin play to get the A.I. chasing us.
So pulls a video and have a go.
Okay, welcome back.
Let's give this a shot.
So first things first, we're going to have.
I'm going to be using a move to actor and we're going to have to set the goal actor.
So let's go over to our shooter, A.I. controllers, DOT, GPP.
And in their begin play, we can do move to actor.
And we've got an actor already play a porn, which we've got from the last lecture.
And let's just have a look.
Are there any other useful properties here?
We've got an acceptance radius at the moment.
It has no acceptance radius.
Basically, it gets as close as it possibly can.
I think that might be a little bit encroaching.
I'm gonna give it an acceptance radius of two meters.
So will try to get within two meters of us.
So let's go ahead and build that.
And once that's complete, go over into the engine and let's have a look.
I'm going to not expand the bounds volume here just to give you a taste of why we need the bounce volume
in the first place.
So let's start off with an old P.
And here we are, we are on the nav mesh.
And this guy has moved towards us automatically.
But if I leave that nav mesh, he can no longer get any closer to me because he can't find the route.
He can't find a way of getting to me.
So what we're going to do is we in fact, I'm not sure that was what's actually going on here, because
probably what's happening is that he's getting within the acceptance radius of me and then not trying
again.
So one way to check that would be to just remove this acceptance radius and recompile and then we can
go over and see if that's what's going on.
So, yeah, he comes right up to me.
Fi, move away.
Well, he basically forgot that command.
So what we want to do is do this in tech because basically once he reaches me, he gives up on the idea
of chasing me.
So let's move this over to take this isn't the ideal way to do it, but that's what we're gonna do just
for now.
I'm going to copy the signature of tech from our actors on H.
And I know that it goes in the public section, so I'm going to create a public section at the top.
Copy in the signature.
Make it an override.
Just safety and then implement it over in the C++ and move and move actor in to tick.
And the acceptance radius still of two meters that's try this now.
And obviously is complaining that we don't have a player porn over there.
So let's go and make sure we're getting hold.
Repeating this line that gets hold of the first player porn over in our tick as well.
And now we should be able to test it out properly, do an LP, go into the world, comes and gets us
within two meters.
I move away from him and look at that.
He's not even aiming at me properly this time, but he is trying to follow along.
But as soon as I leave that nav mesh, he no longer knows how to find me.
So let's fix that up, shall we?
We're going to go to an NAF mesh bound volume.
If I can select it.
There we go.
And then we wants to really zoom out here to try and encompass the whole of our level.
It looks a bit janki on the outside this level, Pozza.
That's just the way things often work, is that you build the level to be viewed from the inside, not
from the outside.
So let's make this much wider.
Let's make it much taller so that it encompasses all of the level and just drag it out so that all the
expense of the level here are covered.
Just make it a little bit wider, a little bit longer, too.
And just make sure all of this is encompassed fully.
And you can see the green has appeared as it's calculates the NAF mesh.
And let's just make sure that the NAV measures going down low enough that it's covering the lowest extents
of our map seems to be covering it now.
So if we go ahead and we can hide and now mesh now that we'd have set it all up and we can do an old
piece.
Go ahead and play.
And he can find us and follow us pretty much anywhere that we go within this level.
You can see that our trusted little servant is following along behind us wherever we choose to go.
He is just tailing us and trailing us, which is very annoying.
But he is able to do that.
Awesome stuff.
So in this lecture, we have seen how we can create at NAV measures and how we can use them to get our
ally to follow us around the level.
Next lecture, we're gonna loop back round to this aiming fix the bug and check.
Line of sight so that we don't necessarily always chase the player around.
See there.
And I've just noticed one silly little mistake that I have made here, which is that I'm not calling
to super kolon kolon tech.
So that is actually why when you sometimes you get these weird, unexplained bugs, you're not calling
to super.
Then things don't always work as expected.
That's why the focus had stopped working, because essentially we had disabled tick on a high controller,
which is no good.
Furi enable that.
Then everything should work as normal with setting focus.